# 5.3 Randomized algorithms
## 5.3-1
We can randomly swap the first element first, then start the for loop from the second element.

```
RANDOMIZE-IN-PLACE(A)
n = A.length
swap A[1] with A[RANDOM(1, n)]
for i = 2 to n
    swap A[i] with A[RANDOM(i, n)]
```

And here is the initialization step: before the first loop iteration, i = 2. The loop invariant says that for each possible 1-permutation, the subarray A[1..1] contains this 1-permutation with probability (n - i + 1)!/n! = (n - 1)!/n! = 1/n. The subarray A[1..1] contains only one element, contains 1-permutation with probability 1/n, so the loop invariant holds prior to the first iteration.

The maintenance and termination steps remain the same.

## 5.3-2
No, it cannot get any permutation, for example, the identity permutation.

## 5.3-3
This method can produce $n^n$ permutations, but there are only at most n! permutations. So some permutations have duplicates. If each permutation has same number of duplicates, which means $n^n$ is divisible by n!, then the code can produce a uniform random permutation, otherwise, it can not.

Let's consider n - 1, it's obvious that n - 1 is a divisor of n!. Then lt's prove n - 1 is not a divisor of $n^n$ for n > 2.

To make it simple, let's compare $(n + 1)^{n + 1}$ and n for n > 1. We can write $(n + 1)^{n + 1}$ as $a_{n + 1}n^{n + 1} + a_nn^n + \ldots + a_1n + 1$. Thus $\frac{(n + 1)^{n + 1}}{n} = a_{n + 1}n^n + a_nn^{n - 1} + \ldots + a_1 + \frac{1}{n}$, which is not an integer when n > 1. So $(n + 1)^{n + 1}$ is not divisible by n when n > 1, thus, $n^n$ is not divisible by n - 1 when n > 2.

So $n^n$ is not divisible by n!, otherwise, n - 1 must also be a divisor of $n^n$. Thus, the code cannot produce a uniform random permutation.

## 5.3-4
